content/page/About.markdown, before:

---
layout: page
title: "About"
date: 2011-09-26T21:09:00Z
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
url: /about
aliases: /About.html
---
## Some Trivia

Born in 1982, connected to the global TCP/IP network since 1996. Also known as [asf@boinkor.net](mailto:asf@boinkor.net) (GPG key ID [7D14ADF4F332BDEA](http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x7D14ADF4F332BDEA)) or antifuchs on IRC. Beware: I use [Reverse Smileys (aka left-handed smileys)](/reverse_smileys/).

## What is Andreas Fuchs doing right now?

To learn what I'm up to as it happens, read my [weblog](/). Here's a summary: I work for a [startup company](http://stripe.com) in the SF Bay Area. Before that, I was consulting on lispy problems (Want me to solve problems for you? send me [e-mail](mailto:asf@boinkor.net).) In my spare time, I enjoy hacking in Common Lisp, building robots, listening to music, listening to and reading and watching good stories being told.

## asf on the web

* I tweet as [@antifuchs](http://twitter.com/antifuchs). An @ reply is
  the preferred method for commenting on this site.
* My public projects are on [my github account](https://github.com/antifuchs).
* I keep bookmarks in [pinboard.in](http://pinboard.in):
  [antifuchs' pinboard.in bookmarks](http://pinboard.in/u:antifuchs)
* I have a [last.fm](http://last.fm) profile:
  [antifuchs at last.fm](http://www.last.fm/user/antifuchs/)
* Find out [What google knows about me](http://www.google.com/search?q=antifuchs)

This site was generated with [Octopress](http://gohugo.io/) from [this source code](https://github.com/antifuchs/octopress).

If you want to know more, just ask me at [asf@boinkor.net](mailto:asf@boinkor.net).

Commit message:

Improve /about and provide new GPG info
This lists my personal and work keys separately, and provides correct
links to the blog engine, theme and my SSL hosting story.

content/page/About.markdown, after:

---
layout: page
title: "About"
date: 2011-09-26T21:09:00Z
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
url: /about
aliases: /About.html
---
## Some Trivia

Born in 1982, connected to the global TCP/IP network since 1996. Also known as [asf@boinkor.net](mailto:asf@boinkor.net) (GPG key ID [1526E64EDCAFCB0B for personal email](http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x1526E64EDCAFCB0B) and [7D14ADF4F332BDEA for work-related things](http://pgp.mit.edu:11371/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0x7D14ADF4F332BDEA)) or antifuchs on IRC. Beware: I use [Reverse Smileys (aka left-handed smileys)](/reverse_smileys/).

## What is Andreas Fuchs doing right now?

To learn what I'm up to as it happens, read my [weblog](/). Here's a summary: I work for a [startup company](http://stripe.com) in the SF Bay Area. Before that, I was consulting on lispy problems (Want me to solve problems for you? send me [e-mail](mailto:asf@boinkor.net).) In my spare time, I enjoy hacking in Common Lisp, building robots, listening to music, listening to and reading and watching good stories being told.

## asf on the web

* I tweet as [@antifuchs](http://twitter.com/antifuchs). An @ reply is
  the preferred method for commenting on this site.
* My public projects are on [my github account](https://github.com/antifuchs).
* I keep bookmarks in [pinboard.in](http://pinboard.in):
  [antifuchs' pinboard.in bookmarks](http://pinboard.in/u:antifuchs)
* I have a [last.fm](http://last.fm) profile:
  [antifuchs at last.fm](http://www.last.fm/user/antifuchs/)
* Find out [What google knows about me](http://www.google.com/search?q=antifuchs)

This site was generated with [Hugo](http://gohugo.io/) from
[this source code](https://github.com/antifuchs/weblog). My site uses
the [purehugo](https://github.com/dplesca/purehugo) theme. Hosting and
SSL termination provided by
[Google App Engine using Letsencrypt](/2016/01/hosting-my-blog-on-google-app-engine-with-letsencrypt/).

If you want to know more, just ask me at [asf@boinkor.net](mailto:asf@boinkor.net).
