content/post/configuring-iterm-for-mosh-urls.md, before:

---
Categories: [Hacks]
Description: ""
Tags: ["mac", "iterm", "mosh", "plist"]
date: 2016-12-10T16:47:30-08:00
title: "Configuring iTerm2 for mosh: URLs"
---

I use a Mac as my main typing/character-displaying computer, and on
macOS, [iTerm2](And ) is the best terminal emulator that I've found so
far. In addition to iTerm2, I also use [`mosh`](https://mosh.org/),
the mobile shell, to get a fast, interactive and
disconnection-resistant SSH-like connection to hosts on which I need
to use the commandline.

<!--more-->

So, in order to make getting to these hosts fast, I've made something
that sets up bookmarks which open a new terminal window for me: The ruby
gem [ssh_bookmarker](https://github.com/antifuchs/ssh_bookmarker) runs
in a LaunchAgent anytime my `~/.ssh/known_hosts` or `~/.ssh/config`
files change and drops a bunch of bookmarks in a directory that gets
indexed by spotlight.

Now, whenever I want to open a remote shell, I use spotlight and type
the host name. Very handy! (You can also use `open
ssh://my.cool.server.horse` and get a new iTerm tab with the SSH
session in it, and that's exactly what goes on in the background.)

That works perfectly for SSH (to see how to set this up, see
the [FAQ](https://www.iterm2.com/faq.html) and search for "handler for
ssh://"), but I'd like to do this with mosh or other custom URL
schemes, too! This is not as readily available as `ssh://` URL
handling, but it can be done.

For about 5 years now, I've had to look up how to do this and cobble
together a solution from various rumors, stackoverflow articles and
digging through source code. No more! This time I'm blogging the
solution so future-me can have an easier time of it.

## Prerequisites

First, you'll need iTerm2 - I use version 3.0.12, but the newer the
better. Then, you'll need `mosh` - I install it from homebrew, and the
program location is `/usr/local/bin/mosh`.

Throughout this post, we'll also be using the `jq` and `duti` tools,
you can get them from homebrew, too.

## The iTerm profile and its GUID

First, you'll need an iTerm profile dedicated to mosh-ing. Any
settings you want are ok, but you need to set this as the command:
`/usr/local/bin/mosh $$HOST$$`

Now that you have this profile, you'll need its GUID. This is easiest
by exporting your new profile as JSON from iTerm's Profiles preferences:

1. Select the Mosh profile you just created,
2. Open the "Other Actions" gear menu below the profile list.
3. Select "Copy Profile as JSON":<br/>
!["Copy Profile as JSON" in the mosh profile's "Other Actions" menu](/assets/images/iterm-copy-profile.png)

To figure out the profile's GUID, run:
``` sh
pbpaste | jq '.Guid'
```

This should print a UUID in double quotes. Make a note of that string!
We're going to use it as `THEGUID` below.

## URL handling - LaunchServices

URL handling in macOS comes in two steps:
First when you run `open somescheme://host/`,
[LaunchServices](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Carbon/Conceptual/LaunchServicesConcepts/LSCIntro/LSCIntro.html) looks
up what program handles the given URL scheme. To set iTerm2 up as the
handler for `mosh://` URLs, I use `duti`:

``` sh
duti -s com.googlecode.iterm2 mosh
```

At this point, running `open mosh://my.cool.server.horse` should open
a new iTerm tab, but it won't open a mosh connection yet. What else do
we need to do?

## URL handling on iTerm's end

Once iTerm gets instructed to open a `mosh://` URL, it looks up the
URL scheme in its scheme<>profile mapping. Since `mosh` is not in
there yet, let's fix this (replace `THEGUID` with the output from `jq`
in the [GUID section](#the-iterm-profile-and-its-guid):

``` sh
defaults write com.googlecode.iterm2 URLHandlersByGuid -dict-add mosh THEGUID
```

And then restart iTerm2.

## Success

If all this worked correctly and all the IDs line up, running `open
mosh://my.cool.server.horse` should open a new iTerm window running
mosh, attempting to open a connection to a cool example server.

## Next steps

You can save yourself the trouble of keeping track of these GUIDs,
especially if you use some sort of management tool (like [ansible](https://www.ansible.com/get-started))
to automatically set up your Macs. I have started experimenting
with
[Dynamic Profiles](https://www.iterm2.com/documentation-dynamic-profiles.html) and
specifying GUIDs as host names, and that might have some pleasing
results, too. I'll post an update when I get this fully working.

Also, this doesn't yet work for `mosh://` URLs with a user name
specified (or rather, the user name gets ignored and only the host
part gets passed to mosh). It's likely that you'll have to wrap the
`mosh` tool with another tool in order to get that to work.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy.

Commit message:

Update all ![] markdown images to {{% responsive images

content/post/configuring-iterm-for-mosh-urls.md, after:

---
Categories: [Hacks]
Description: ""
Tags: ["mac", "iterm", "mosh", "plist"]
date: 2016-12-10T16:47:30-08:00
title: "Configuring iTerm2 for mosh: URLs"
---

I use a Mac as my main typing/character-displaying computer, and on
macOS, [iTerm2](And ) is the best terminal emulator that I've found so
far. In addition to iTerm2, I also use [`mosh`](https://mosh.org/),
the mobile shell, to get a fast, interactive and
disconnection-resistant SSH-like connection to hosts on which I need
to use the commandline.

<!--more-->

So, in order to make getting to these hosts fast, I've made something
that sets up bookmarks which open a new terminal window for me: The ruby
gem [ssh_bookmarker](https://github.com/antifuchs/ssh_bookmarker) runs
in a LaunchAgent anytime my `~/.ssh/known_hosts` or `~/.ssh/config`
files change and drops a bunch of bookmarks in a directory that gets
indexed by spotlight.

Now, whenever I want to open a remote shell, I use spotlight and type
the host name. Very handy! (You can also use `open
ssh://my.cool.server.horse` and get a new iTerm tab with the SSH
session in it, and that's exactly what goes on in the background.)

That works perfectly for SSH (to see how to set this up, see
the [FAQ](https://www.iterm2.com/faq.html) and search for "handler for
ssh://"), but I'd like to do this with mosh or other custom URL
schemes, too! This is not as readily available as `ssh://` URL
handling, but it can be done.

For about 5 years now, I've had to look up how to do this and cobble
together a solution from various rumors, stackoverflow articles and
digging through source code. No more! This time I'm blogging the
solution so future-me can have an easier time of it.

## Prerequisites

First, you'll need iTerm2 - I use version 3.0.12, but the newer the
better. Then, you'll need `mosh` - I install it from homebrew, and the
program location is `/usr/local/bin/mosh`.

Throughout this post, we'll also be using the `jq` and `duti` tools,
you can get them from homebrew, too.

## The iTerm profile and its GUID

First, you'll need an iTerm profile dedicated to mosh-ing. Any
settings you want are ok, but you need to set this as the command:
`/usr/local/bin/mosh $$HOST$$`

Now that you have this profile, you'll need its GUID. This is easiest
by exporting your new profile as JSON from iTerm's Profiles preferences:

1. Select the Mosh profile you just created,
2. Open the "Other Actions" gear menu below the profile list.
3. Select "Copy Profile as JSON":<br/>
{{%img alt="\"Copy Profile as JSON\" in the mosh profile's \"Other Actions\" menu" src="/assets/images/iterm-copy-profile.png"%}}

To figure out the profile's GUID, run:
``` sh
pbpaste | jq '.Guid'
```

This should print a UUID in double quotes. Make a note of that string!
We're going to use it as `THEGUID` below.

## URL handling - LaunchServices

URL handling in macOS comes in two steps:
First when you run `open somescheme://host/`,
[LaunchServices](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Carbon/Conceptual/LaunchServicesConcepts/LSCIntro/LSCIntro.html) looks
up what program handles the given URL scheme. To set iTerm2 up as the
handler for `mosh://` URLs, I use `duti`:

``` sh
duti -s com.googlecode.iterm2 mosh
```

At this point, running `open mosh://my.cool.server.horse` should open
a new iTerm tab, but it won't open a mosh connection yet. What else do
we need to do?

## URL handling on iTerm's end

Once iTerm gets instructed to open a `mosh://` URL, it looks up the
URL scheme in its scheme<>profile mapping. Since `mosh` is not in
there yet, let's fix this (replace `THEGUID` with the output from `jq`
in the [GUID section](#the-iterm-profile-and-its-guid):

``` sh
defaults write com.googlecode.iterm2 URLHandlersByGuid -dict-add mosh THEGUID
```

And then restart iTerm2.

## Success

If all this worked correctly and all the IDs line up, running `open
mosh://my.cool.server.horse` should open a new iTerm window running
mosh, attempting to open a connection to a cool example server.

## Next steps

You can save yourself the trouble of keeping track of these GUIDs,
especially if you use some sort of management tool (like [ansible](https://www.ansible.com/get-started))
to automatically set up your Macs. I have started experimenting
with
[Dynamic Profiles](https://www.iterm2.com/documentation-dynamic-profiles.html) and
specifying GUIDs as host names, and that might have some pleasing
results, too. I'll post an update when I get this fully working.

Also, this doesn't yet work for `mosh://` URLs with a user name
specified (or rather, the user name gets ignored and only the host
part gets passed to mosh). It's likely that you'll have to wrap the
`mosh` tool with another tool in order to get that to work.

In the meantime, I hope you enjoy.
